Again, the point of this
course is to make it so
that you understand how
to use smart contracts.
You may not exit this course
knowing all the semantics you need
to be able to create your own NFT.
But you will pretty quickly be able
to do it because you understand
the fundamentals.
I'm really trying to shoot
a good fundamental course here.
If you wanna quick refresher on syntax.
Crypto zombies.io, honestly one
of the best ones I've ever done.
It's number one in the world apparently
415,672 plus very odd
number to put a plus.
By the way usually people make
it a little bit more approximate
have taken this course.
It's fun, I did it, it was great.
They even do some bitwise stuff and
kind of do something very similar
to what I did with heroes.
But they do zombies eat crypto kitties,
it's a lot of fun stuff.
So we're gonna move on to
diamonds are forever, sort of.
So there are a way around the size issue,
we could hack our own solution.
So you can imagine
the solution where alright,
let's have contract area
we launched that one.
Then we have contract B that launches
from there, then we point to A.
And when people call us we call A and then
if we need to update A we can update A.
And then pass in a new
dress that calls new A, but
we're trying to store everything
we can and contract B.
And it get really messy really confusing
and if you make a bug in contract B,
you still have to do the same thing.
So then you're like, okay,
I'll make a contract C that points
to b that B points to a right?
Like it just the problem goes forever,
right,
you can't really get
around bugs that happen.
So let's use a well established pattern,
so
the pattern is called
the diamond pattern right here.
It effectively addresses two points
your contract is too big and
you want to be able to update
your contractor at some point.
It's the Etherium improvement plan 25,35,
from the site here's the motivation for
the site will go on.
I don't really read
a really need to do that.
From my own perspective how
I like to learn things is,
I want to know as much as I
need to know that I can use it.
I have written HTTP HB two and
Web Sockets for Netflix and
I don't need to understand how TCP works
to write those, right none of us do.
We don't need to know that, we just simply
need to know how it works in a sense
that okay TCP sends reliable in
order data or structured data.
Therefore when I send 10,000k worth of
data I'm gonna get 10,000k in the same
border on the other side.
Now how I interpret that data,
that's something that sits on top of TCP.
And much like this, you don't need to
understand every fine minutiae of how
the diamond contract works.
You just simply need an understand
enough that A you don't screw yourself.
And B, if there's a problem deploying
trying to understand a feature,
you can just take care of it.
And so I really want to make
sure we get that, and so
first let me kind of
whiteboard out the diamond.
So first, I'm just going to draw
a really beautiful diamond pattern here,
my goodness look at how beautiful that is.
Effectively what happens is,
that here's the outside world,
here is our diamond contract.
All the outside world goes to our
diamond contract and calls it.
Inside of our diamond contract,
we can have one or more contracts
that are actually executing.
But here's the amazing part, all the data
is stored on the diamond contract and
we don't know about it.
We assume we're working with our own
data but that's not what's happening,
just for the sake of that.
So the diamond will route our call to the
appropriate contract each time something
gets called, and of course returned back
out the data from each one of these calls.
So that it works out correctly,
we can go back out the other
end as if you're calling a single
contract with all these methods.
So this sounds great, right?
I like to think of it more like a,
it's almost feels like
a microservice architecture, right?
You have your domain and
behind it actually is just a huge
amount of different services.
And they all come back with
a single value back out,
it's not like your request actually is
routing itself to the correct place.
It just does it automatically based
on how you set everything up.
And so I like to think of it that way,
why was it chosen to be called diamonds?
I don't know there's a lot of kind of
bespoke language that he uses to describe
all the operations.
I also find it very confusing to read
the documentation, just cuz of that.
So I'm going to kind of avoid
using their language and
just try to describe it more in
micro service kind of architecture.
So I think, the rest the world that's
how we think, so it's a little easier.
I'm just gonna be kind of walking
through some technical aspects
of how contracts work,
memory works, delegate calls work.
And you can kind of watch and
understand it,
because you probably will never really
touch most of what I'm gonna do.
You just need to know that it's
out there and understand it.
So it's my favorite part live coding time,
so
let's first start off with fallbacks,
all right.
So a fallback actually was
an interesting proposal that used
to be available in Mozilla's browser for
JavaScript.
You could actually put a magic function
on any object, and this magic function
would be called if anything was called
on the object that did not exist.
I think proxy objects do that,
now in JavaScript so
you can kinda recreate this functionality.
But it was really cool cuz you could
just have this magic fallback.
Python has this right if I'm not mistaken,
I'm sure other languages
do I have no idea.
So let's go let's see where
are we let's jump in here and
let's create something
called fallback dot soul.
In my head I still say shit out of luck
every single time I'm gonna go right here
and I'm gonna import in hard hat, right?
console dot soul.
And let's go fall back to that and
let's create a internal function.
I'll call it foo internal,
and it doesn't really matter,
I guess I can go here, yeah, why not?
Are just gonna go console dot log,
hello world.
Let's see Somehow got down in but
it worked out, I think
I might actually have to call to view
because I'm referring to console dot log.
I'm not really sure if that is there
is not true and there we go, so
I created this internal function.
No one can call this function but
me and subclasses,
then I'm going to create a special
function called fallback.
Now what I want you to notice about
fallback is that I do not put the word
function in front of it.
Much like constructor,
you don't specify it's a function
it has a very specific meaning.
Next, I put the word external,
fallback functions cannot be called
by the contract itself,
it may only be called from the outside.
Lastly, I put payable, because you
don't know if you're gonna get paid or
not from this fallback, right,
so, we shouldn't dictate that.
And so what we're gonna do is I'm
gonna like this, I'm gonna call foo.
I'm gonna go console.log fallback and
then on top of it,
I'm just gonna call it revert and
go, you shouldn't be here.
Right cuz to do a proper fallback function
requires us to break into assembly,
assign call data to locations,
call out to something else.
Assign the return data into other,
it's fairly complicated to
get it perfectly correct.
So I'm just gonna shortcut it right
here and get to right here, so
close enough, right?
Because I don't need to understand how
these work, I just need to understand or
I don't need the standard
specific minutiae of them.
I just need to understand the how.
So now that we have that,
let's go to our deploy script,
I'm gonna deploy fall back
to s go bam going here.
Let's see is going here,
Yank that, paste it in here.
And deploy, fallback,
going here, rename that,
fallback, fallback, awesome, and
is there anything we need, probably not.
Fall back, there we go, down and here.
Alright, and so instead of calling count
actually, why not let's just call count,
doesn't really matter, does it?
No, it doesn't.
So there we go, we have deployed or
fallback.
We have an address, and
then we're just gonna call count,
count does not exist on fallback, correct?
So we can't quite do that
because ethers is going to fail.
Because ethers requires some, it requires
an API to hydrate these magic functions.
So I'm gonna kind of cheat,
I'm gonna show you a really cool thing.
So let's go back to fall back,
and let's go like this,
I'm gonna erase all this nonsense here.
I'm gonna create an interface,
let's click this interface.
I'm going to call it an AI fallback,
I know it's great?
And I'm gonna say there's a function
called count that is a public function,
and that's that, right?
So there we go are actually external, you
can only say their external, there we go.
So this is an interface.
So now what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna go back to my deploy code, and
I'm gonna go let's see cost
F equals ethers await,
get contract at fallback address.
I'm gonna use the address of the fallback
contract that we just got done creating,
which does not have count or whatever,
what did I put in here
count as a function.
And what I'm gonna use, is I'm gonna
use I fall back as what it should be.
So if I believe I got these contracts or
these things in the correct order.
I'm gonna get an I fall back remember this
hard hat they put this method here for me.
They've compiled our contracts,
they know that there's
an interface called I fallback.
We're gonna use that interface and
apply it to an address that definitely
does not have these functions.
And then I'm going to call count.
So let's see what happens,
let's just jump in here and
find a MPX hardhat run and no rink B.
We wanna pay some money here for
nothing and
then let's go network local
host just like before.
I am running a node perfect, so
if I've done everything correctly,
this should just launch, there we go.
Look at the error I got,
you shouldn't be here, so we did,
we executed the fallback on an object,
and even more so.
Look at what executed, hello world,
fallback, which if you look at this thing,
Hello worlds from foo
fallbacks right here.
so we're able to interact with our
contract read data call functions
do something and then we can call
revert or we could return data.
It's a little bit like I said
the returning is pretty confusing because
we don't actually specify return here.
But that doesn't mean you can't return,
solidity in the assembly world pretty
much allows you to do anything and.
You'll find out more I'm going to kind
of pull the rug out if you will on just
how anything goes in
solidity here shortly.